.\" Manpage for arxsavetool.
.\" Go to https://arx.vg/bug to correct errors or typos.
.TH arxsavetool 1 "2013-06-28" "1.1"
.SH NAME
arxsavetool \- Inspect and modify Arx Libertatis save files
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B arxsavetool
.B <action>
.I <savefile>
[\fB<options>\fP...]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B arxsavetool
is a tool to inspect and modify save files of the first-person role-playing game Arx Libertatis.
.B arxsavetool
allows to extract individual files from save file containers and re-pack them.
.B arxsavetool
also allows listing the information contained in save files and fixing some errors caused
by broken versions of the game.
.SH ACTIONS
.TP
.B extract
Extract all files in the save file container to the current directory. This action takes no further options.
.TP
.B add
Add additional files to a save file container. All additional parameters after the save file container are interpreted as files to add.
.TP
.B fix
Fix errors in the save file caused by broken versions of Arx Libertatis. You don't need this if you never ran development versions of \fBarx\fP. This action takes no further options.

Requires \fBdata.pak\fP, \fBdata2.pak\fP and the \fBgraph\fP directory to be in the current directory.
.TP
.B view
List information contained in the save file. Without any additional arguments it just lists all level files contained. You can specify an individual save file after the save file container to display it's contents.

Requires \fBloc.pak\fP to be in the current directory.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBarx\fP(6), \fBarxunpak\fP(1)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
