.\" Manpage for arxunpak.
.\" Go to https://arx.vg/bug to correct errors or typos.
.TH arxunpak 1 "2017-05-03" "1.1"
.SH NAME
arxunpak \- Extract the Arx Fatalis .pak files containing the game assets
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBarxunpak\fP [options] [\fB\-\-\fP] \fIpakfiles\fP ...

\fBarxunpak\fP [options] [\fB\-\-all\fP]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBarxunpak\fP extracts the .pak files containing the game assets of \fBArx Fatalis\fP.

This is not required to run \fBArx Libertatis\fP but can be useful for development.

All no-option arguments are interpreted as files to extract.

Output files are written to the current working directory.
.SH OPTIONS SUMMARY
.PP
Here is a short summary of the options available in arxunpak. Please refer to the detailed  documentation below for a complete description.
.TP
.B Generic options:
.nf
 \-h \-\-help               Show supported options
 \-g \-\-debug \fILEVELS\fP       Set debug output levels
 \-q \-\-quiet              Don't print log output
.fi
.TP
.B Search path options:
.nf
 \-n \-\-no-data-dir        Don't automatically detect data directories
 \-d \-\-data\-dir \fIDIR\fP       Where to find the data files (can be repeated)
 \-u \-\-user\-dir \fIDIR\fP       Where to store user-specific files
 \-c \-\-config\-dir \fIDIR\fP     Where to store config files
 \-l \-\-list-dirs          List the searched user and data directories
.fi
.TP
.B Unpack options:
 \-a \-\-all                Process all game assets as seen by Arx Libertatis
 \-e \-\-extract            Extract archive contents (default action)
    \-\-list               List archive contents
 \-m \-\-manifest           Print archive manifest
 \-o \-\-output-dir \fIDIR\fP     Directory to extract files to
.fi
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-\-\fP
Treat all arguments after this one as files, even if they begin with a dash.
.TP
\fB\-a\fP, \fB\-\-all\fP
Extract or list all resources seen by the game.

If no .pak files are specified on the command-line, this option is enabled by default. In this case all files are extracted to the "\fIunpacked\fP" subdirectory of the user directoy instead of the current directory, unless the \fB\-\-output\-dir\fP option is used to override the output directory.
.TP
\fB\-c\fP, \fB\-\-config\-dir\fP=\fIDIR\fP
By default arx will store configuration files in directories specified by the \fBXDG Base Directory Specification\fP.
This option overrides the directory where config files are loaded from and saved to.
.TP
\fB\-d\fP, \fB\-\-data\-dir\fP=\fIDIR\fP
Arx Libertatis will look for data files in directories specified by the \fBXDG Base Directory Specification\fP and in the directory containing the game executable. Besides the system-wide data directory, data files are also loaded from the user directory, which can be set by the \fB\-\-user\-dir\fP option.

This option adds additional directories to search for data files before the detected system-wide directories, but after the user directory. To override the detected data directories combine it with the \fB\-\-no\-data\-dir\fP option.

The \fB\-\-data\-dir\fP option can be repeated to add multiple data directories, in which case they are searched in the order provided.

See \fIhttps://arx.vg/paths\fP, the \fB\-\-list\-dirs\fP output and the \fBarx\fP(6) documentation for more details.

This option only affects which archives are loaded when using the \fB\-\-all\fP option -- it has no effect on .pak archives specified on the command-line.
.TP
\fB\-g\fP, \fB\-\-debug\fP=\fILEVELS\fP
This option can be used to enable debug output for debug builds of Arx Libertatis. For non-debug build, this option is not very useful but recognized for convenience.
.TP
\fB\-e\fP, \fB\-\-extract\fP
Extract files from the processed archives. This is the default action unless the \fB\-\-list\fP or \fB\-\-manifest\fP options are used.

By default, files are extracted to the current directory unless neither explicit .pak files nor the \fB\-\-all\fP option were specified on the command-line, in which case files are extracted to the "\fIunpacked\fP" subdirectory of the user directory. The \fB\-\-output\-dir\fP option can be used to override where files are extracted to.
.TP
\fB\-h\fP, \fB\-\-help\fP
Show a list of the supported options.
.TP
\fB\-\-list\fP
List all files and directories in the processed archives.

Each file or directory is printed on a separate line. Directories are indicated using a trailing slash.
.TP
\fB\-l\fP, \fB\-\-list\-dirs\fP
Show the data, user and config search directories and how they were determined. To adjust the search directories, use the \fB\-\-no\-data\-dir\fP, \fB\-\-data\-dir\fP, \fB\-\-user\-dir\fP and \fB\-\-config\-dir\fP options.
.TP
\fB\-m\fP, \fB\-\-manifest\fP
Print checksums of files and list directories in the processed archives.

Each file or directory is printed on a separate line. Directories are indicated using a trailing slash and are preceeded by 34 spaces. Files are preceeded by a 32-character MD5 checksum, one space and one asterisk ("*"). This format is compatible with the \fB\-\-check\fP option of \fBmd5sum\fP(1), which will simply ignore directory lines.
.TP
\fB\-n\fP, \fB\-\-no\-data\-dir\fP
Disables looking for default data directories. Default user and config directories and data directories provided using the \fB\-\-data\-dir\fP option are still searched.

This option only affects which archives are loaded when using the \fB\-\-all\fP option -- it has no effect on .pak archives specified on the command-line.
.TP
\fB\-o\fP, \fB\-\-output\-dir\fP \fIDIR\fP
Extract all files into the given directory. By default, \fBarxunpak\fP will extract all files to the current directory unless neither explicit .pak files nor the \fB\-\-all\fP option were specified on the command-line, in which case files are extracted to the "\fIunpacked\fP" subdirectory of the user directory.

If the specified directory does not exist, it will be created.
.TP
\fB\-q\fP, \fB\-\-quiet\fP
This option disables all log output. Only the archive type and extracted files and directories (or manifest) are still printed.
.TP
\fB\-u\fP, \fB\-\-user\-dir\fP=\fIDIR\fP
By default arx will store user files (saves, etc.) in directories specified by the \fBXDG Base Directory Specification\fP.
This option overrides the directory where user files are loaded from.

The user directory will be used to load data, overwriting resources from the system-wide data directories amd from directories specified by the \fB\-\-data\-dir\fP option.

This option only affects which archives are loaded when using the \fB\-\-all\fP option -- it has no effect on .pak archives specified on the command-line.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBarx\fP(6), \fBarxsavetool\fP(1)
.SH BUGS
No known bugs.
